one of my favorite Parker stories is uh
I joined in late 2013 so my first full
year was 2014 and about a quarter in we
were shooting for a revenue Target of 10
million dollars by the end of the year
we started at something like half a
million dollars of ARR we were going for
10 million and one quarter in Parker sat
down myself and the head of marketing at
the time so the go to market team he was
like all right nobody panic but I just
want to do a quick thought exercise of
what it would look like if we switched
the goal to 20 million in ARR this year
so we're gonna double it um but just
like throw a step up against the wall
see what sticks and so we went through
this what started as a thought exercise
and I think within 24 or 48 hours we
changed the revenue Target to 20 million
in ARR
um and so uh one thing that was just
super motivating for me having Parker as
a leader was that type of uh push and
motivation and I know that was happening
within the go to market organization
alongside all of the different uh
departments that reported into Parker
this is sort of like how can we be
better how can we move faster how can we
deliver more
um with that Parker is going to be
talking about the first rule you know
about building software is wrong uh his
theory around the compound startup
Parker's probably the best person in the
world to deliver this talk uh now being
the founder of two compound startups
each valued at several billion dollars
so Parker come on up and I'll join you
remember materially for the fireside
chat
if there's one rule that almost everyone
universally agrees with about building
software it said focus is really
important so two of my favorite Silicon
Valley characters here are Bill Gurley
and David I was only CEO of that company
for a very brief period of time Saks uh
both both agree that focus is really
really critical and even sort of way
beyond that you know this is sort of a
consistent truism very strong
conventional wisdom that focus is really
important and you want to narrow what
you're doing so that you can go really
deep and I think that this conventional
wisdom is wrong
or at least extremely limiting and there
exists a set of companies that could be
built that are often not built that
break this Rule and so there are a few
things that that are problematic with
this
um one is that it sort of limits you to
problems that are contained within one
sort of vertical or one sort of type of
business system and a lot of the deepest
problems that we face as companies are
problems about you know collaboration
across the business how different
different systems interface with one
another
um that that sort of strategy of
narrowing what you do doesn't really
lend itself to solving those kinds of
problems
um it's also been picked over like at
this point like uh you know 15 years ago
you could start a SAS company in any
vertical and you'd be the first one and
it would probably be pretty successful
but now like every every space has got
two or three things in it and so the
focus narrow Point solution approach
there's not a lot of opportunity left
and then you get to this issue where
like how do you how do you go to product
number two if everything about your
company is oriented around just having
one product in it and so the alternative
here is something that I call a compound
startup which is a company that is
building multiple products in parallel
that are deeply integrated and
seamlessly interoperable with one
another
um and uh I think there are a few
advantages of this one is that the area
is relatively unexplored there are a lot
of places where because the conventional
wisdom is so strong in the idea that you
shouldn't do this there are these
undiscovered islands of product Market
fit that are sort of just beyond the
horizon line that if you can Sail Out
and sort of make it there everything
else about your company will work
there are some critical advantages from
a product perspective of building a
compound startup I think it's obvious
and very well understood what the
product advantages are of building a
really focused narrow Point solution
the product advantages of building a
compound startup they're really really
five the first is that most compound
startups the products are much more
deeply integrated with one another
the second is they're usually really
deeply integrated with some underlying
system of Records so in Ripley's case
that would be employee data there are a
bunch of ways in our product that
employee data allows for many new
product capabilities there's a lot of
functionality that's unlocked because
all of our products are deeply
integrated with employee data
you get to extract out a lot of stuff
you can find elements of your product or
elements of these products that end up
being repeated you can build them once
and then build them really well go
really deep on these Concepts so at
Rippling these are things like reports
reports and analytics workflow
automations
role-based permissions custom policies
there are a few others and like on those
things on these critical pieces that end
up being used across every single
product that we build what we can do is
we can go a hundred times deeper on
those capabilities than any of our
competitors can afford to go and so
whenever we're going up against a point
solution competitor that only builds in
one area we know that we're going to win
in those areas we're going to have
better permissions we're going to have
more sophisticated analytics
capabilities
etc etc you also for clients
you get a shared ux which means that
your clients already know how to use
your product so when they buy the next
thing if they buy it from you they
already have super powers
um in your system that don't exist for
them if they buy the Standalone system
so one great example of this that you
see is with Salesforce you know anyone
that's in sales operations the next
product that they built that they buy
whether it's like cpq or you know any of
the other skus that Salesforce sells
people in sales Ops who use Salesforce
are going to want to buy that next
product from Salesforce because they're
going to already going to know how to
use it
and then lastly you have this pricing
Advantage which is that compound
products can optimize pricing over the
entire bundle of skus and they don't
have to make it all back on one specific
product and that allows you to run
circles around competitors from a
pricing perspective in a lot of cases
you see this like Microsoft it's the
classic example of a competitor that
uses this to great effect
that's why slack is owned by Salesforce
now because like teams is free in the
Microsoft bundle
um and the knock on this is always well
how do you you know if if you build a
lot of things how can you be good at any
one of them um aren't you going to end
up building superficial versions of each
of these products and the answer is like
that doesn't work
um and so the challenge of a compound
startup is that you need to be good at
parallel execution across all of these
different products because you're never
you're only as strong as your weakest
link
um and so if you have one crappy product
and a customer is buying seven things
from you and six of them were great and
one of them they're dissatisfied with
they're going to churn and so you can't
afford to build something bad
um and that's hard for sure that makes
execution very challenging
um so I want to talk a little bit of an
example Rippling is launching this week
into the UK market so we're now offering
our our full system
um you know payroll hris all of our
different products
um in the UK to UT UK companies um and
the UK Market is actually a really great
example in my view of what happens
um when competitors and companies get
too focused which is that if you look at
the way companies run payroll in the UK
there are payroll ends up being sort of
like a hash function of all of the
changes in your company since the last
time you ran payroll like almost
anything happens in a company and like
you then it has some implication for
payroll and so when companies are
managing all of this in all these
different systems it ends up getting
really difficult to do this and so
companies today in the UK some will have
an hris system but sometimes we're doing
stuff out of spreadsheets and sometimes
you know they'll usually have payroll
system but then pensions and hours and
annual leave is all managed often in
separate systems and then you got to
sort of upload a file to your bank at
the end and and get and get your
employees paid and anything can go wrong
at any point between any of these
systems which makes it a tremendous
amount of work
and so what does that look like well
um you know there are a bunch of
disadvantages to managing this stuff in
spreadsheets obviously
um
um but then once you get stuff over into
payroll
um you've you know you've got to deal
with all of the change management in the
payroll system as well as an hris
um all kinds of stuff can go wrong my
favorite example of this is with uh with
annual leave when people go on annual
leave you've got to pay them out at an
hourly rate that's based on the
historical like average rate that
they've had over the last year based on
like a net of overtime and things like
like net of overtime and things like
that which means that whatever system
you're using to track leave has got to
be aware of like over time and and what
you paid out over the last year and then
that's got to flow into payroll and then
you've got to like deal with this like
Bank file there's a whole bunch of
challenges with that
and the alternative to this is you have
one system that just kind of does all of
this together and that that's
effectively what what Rippling is and
what we do
um and by the way one really interesting
proof point on this
is rippling's a 2 000 person company
um I am the only admin for our system in
Rippling
um so I personally run payroll for our
2000 person company across about a dozen
different countries around the world uh
natively in rip Lane and uh I do that
you know as a part-time job
um and um in the UK Market we did a sort
of a quick study recently and found that
a lot of even like SMB companies in the
UK someone spends five or six days a
month just dealing with payroll
um and so it's an enormous amount of
work that can be just dramatically
compressed when you take this sort of
compound all-in-one approach of the
problem
um and uh it also helps you know you
really see this in Stark relief with new
joiners
um when you have new joiners in your
company
um because everything's managed in one
place
everything happens in one place you
click this button says you want to hire
someone we send out employment
agreements we collect all of their
details we get them enrolled in all the
right systems
um and and it takes you 90 seconds and
then they're ready to go and a lot of
you will see if you don't see the pain
viscerally of managing all these
different systems in separate places you
probably see it when you hire someone
because that's when you see all of this
all at once
um and actually Rippling interestingly
our broader product
um is much more than just what you think
of as traditional HR and payroll
software
um and so this idea of a compound
startup and and focusing on employee
data and everywhere that employee data
lives within your company has ended up
bringing us into a bunch of other areas
and so right now Rippling has actually
three separate clouds we have our HR
Cloud our it cloud and our finance cloud
and so when you click that button to
hire someone we don't just manage
everything related to HR and payroll we
also set them up in all of your
different apps you know slack Dropbox
GitHub email so Salesforce and so on and
you know get them their new computer and
ship that out and manage it for you
going going forward and then we also
separately have our finance Cloud where
we manage expense reimbursements bill
pay corporate cards uh things like that
um
you know so and everything sort of then
you know operates seamlessly
um and then beyond that
um
uh companies end up this problem gets
multiplied by country
um so most businesses are a lot more
remote or a lot more distributed than
they used to be and I'm sure many of
your companies are hiring people outside
of just the UK
um and so you end up replicating like
separate stacks of software to do this
you know in the UK where maybe you're
using sage and then in France where
maybe you're using CLA and you know in
Germany where you might have a system
like datav and a whole bunch of other
Associated systems around it and the
nice thing about Rippling is we've
actually built sort of global payroll
Global hris
um you know all of these capabilities
into one sort of native system so that
you sort of combine all that into one
um so to sort of summarize here like if
if you're if you're thinking about
building a compound startup the most
important thing to start with is like
that the integration is the product
um you want to build in a space where
there are problems because of
disconnected systems or business process
and that you have these advantages where
if you combine everything you can unlock
a lot of new product capabilities really
simplify things for the user and find
areas where you can you can pull out
functionality that you build once
um because you end up like so many
companies end up how many you know
probably a zillion companies the
audience here have all had to build some
version of reports and analytics for
customers of different permissions or
workflow automations or things like that
so if you can find those things you you
can pull out you get these incredible
efficiencies for product development
you want to you want to try and find
ways to help customers save money where
you can charge more overall
but per product they're saving money
because they're sourcing multiple skus
through you and then there are a lot of
organizational challenges where you've
got to often organize the company into
business units with sort of strong
entrepreneurial leads that can run
individual products it relatively
independently to sort of paralyze
execution
so thank you I'm gonna Sam's gonna step
up and join me now Sam and I actually uh
were on stage for the very first saster
with Jason I think like 10 years ago now
it was really cool I had very fond
memories and uh so it's good to be back
uh good to be back here round two yeah
round two uh awesome job thank you so uh
I'll probably come at this from the go
to market lens given my my background so
lots of questions sort of stemming from
uh potential customer growing Revenue
those sorts of things uh
from the customer standpoint two slides
ago you talked about International
payroll which is just one of the skus
that you offer if if I'm a customer and
they're big they're big companies that
have built it been built in that
specific category and probably multiple
categories where you are offering skus
and so if I'm a customer I need
International payroll what are the
advantages or why would I go with a
company like Rippling where I'm one of
22 skus that you're focused on versus a
point Solution that's potentially a big
company a deal or remote something like
that that is more of a point solution
that already exists in this space it's a
good question I think it's actually
because of the ways that we can simplify
the problem for you by being a compound
company
um and in fact many of the problems with
those systems relate to this Central
original sin that they have which is
that companies like like deal and like
remote actually have not built
underlying Global payroll or payroll
really of any kind and so those
companies are sort of secretly running
on other payroll systems country by
country
um you know I think you know deal uses
CLA in France and and probably sage in
the UK and humi at one point in Canada
deals actually until very recently a
Rippling customer in the United States
they ran you know in fact their Global
HR on on rip Lane because they didn't
have all of these other systems in place
and so the problems that you have as a
company if if you're using one of them
is is first that it's a very core
Foundation to build on from a product
perspective because what they're doing
is every time you submit payments in you
know deal or remote or one of those
systems there's this Army of Ops people
that are like loading it into all of
these other systems around the world and
then like running payroll and then
getting the data back to you and that's
why you have to run payroll like you
know 15 days in advance or 30 days in
advance or however long it is right now
and of course that comes with a lot of
problems you know stuff goes wrong it's
a pain in the butt
um and you also like you don't have the
depth of systems that you need to run
your business in those countries like
you don't have full hris full compliance
full-time off tracking you know all of
these other things that sort of surround
payroll and so if you want to run a
report and be like well how much did I
spend on engineering last month there's
no place to do that because you've got
you know one place for your employees in
this country and another system for your
employees in that country or you know
maybe you overlay it with a completely
separate HR System that actually like is
never up to date because actually it's
not connected up to the system you're
using to pay your employees and and so
you you run into the problem of having
disconnected systems when you use these
Focus Point Solutions and that causes an
enormous amount of administrative pain
within your company
that makes sense this this has been a
bit of a bit of an evolution for you
um I I think you know many years ago you
were co-founder at Sig fig which was uh
probably a point solution
um and then you were founder and CEO at
zenefits which was was more compound
startup and now you're Rippling which is
sort of like the Ultimate Compound
startup
um so you you've probably learned a lot
uh as as it pertains to point solution
compared to compound startup throughout
this Evolution what are some things that
you've learned just generally speaking
maybe that you wish you had known back
in the days of Sig fig back in the days
of benefits that you know now
you know the biggest thing is I think
even even when I started Rippling
um the uh you know I had I hadn't
started using this word compound startup
but we were we were always kind of a
little bit apologetic about sort of what
how much we were doing like it was
always there was this deep conviction
that this was what needed to happen that
the market this is what the market
needed and customers didn't just want
all in one they wanted the allest and
honest and that was the way to win
um uh but when when we would talk with
investors it was you know one of the
questions you get from investors is
always like if this doesn't work why
doesn't why won't it work or what's the
you know if you you know if it you know
why are you going to lose
um and for us it was always like well
you know it's this thing like the knock
on us is that you know maybe we're we're
doing too much and like we've got to
overcome the fact that our strategy is
very specifically and purposefully
taking on all of these things in
parallel and actually like what I
realized over the course of of of doing
ripling is that like everything that is
great about the company like all of the
company's biggest strengths come from
this like it ended up ended up being
like the source of our greatest enduring
Advantage
um it's why the company has really
unusual growth persistence
um you know like highly anomalous in
terms of how much our growth rates have
persisted year over year
um really high ndrs we have like a lot
of companies this year we went from our
customers hiring tons of people and
getting tons of free seats because they
just are constantly adding new employees
in the system to a 10 drop in our you
know annual ndr cohorts from a seat
basis but our ndr stayed at like 130
percent and the reason is is because you
know those cohorts buy so many new
products because the cross-sell motion
that we have
um that you know our ndr stays extremely
high and again that's all all a function
of like our whole compound approach and
the different products that we have
um you know the cross-selling business
at Rippling is you know now over five
million dollars in net new a month you
know even before you get to like new
logo sales
um and so like really all of like the
things that make our business really
incredible come from this thing that
started out as something that you know
we were kind of like like I know this is
like not what companies are supposed to
do
um you know sorry but you know
um and and that that that was sort of a
confidence that developed over time and
and you were when you said you didn't I
don't know I think you said I didn't
know the term compound startup when I
when I started Rippling or used that
term but I think you knew that you
wanted to be not a point solution you
wanted to be all in one in the
conviction that was that was the thing
that I walked away from zenefits with
was like that you know when you know
when zenefits was really working it was
that you had you could click this button
to hire an employee and they would show
up automatic hopefully across all of
your HR systems in zanafitz's case and
and and and we just had like this this
strong belief that people wanted that
button but they wanted it to work for
everything across their business
um and I talked to companies uh
regularly with from sort of the investor
seat that
um they are starting as a point solution
with aspirations to evolve into
um what we're talking about as a
compound startup but uh they may just
call it like a multi-product offering
this happens pretty regularly in the
revenue stack where I get pitched and
it's like you know we're going to start
with uh let's just take like a Gong like
version it's a bit of a point solution
and then they want to transcend and
become you know take over Salesforce
take over a lot of the other uh rev
stack solutions for
like knowing what you know now and maybe
for folks in the audience that are
founders of a company that is a point
solution
how would you think about like adapting
from being a point solution into a
compound startup is it possible to do
that after day one is it just what comes
to mind uh it's it's really hard I mean
there there are sort of two two sets of
problems one is they're so and and the
answer is like I'm not sure that you
really can I think you kind of have to
almost like refound the company or you
know sort of like rewind and reverse and
start over and and go in this different
direction
um tactically the reason that that big
businesses it's real so hard for them to
launch like a second product is there so
many built-in assumptions that they have
around there being a single product
um you have everything from just like
the way your sales force instance is set
up to the way your sales team is
compensated to all of your the way all
your training Works to you know how your
product marketing and your product teams
are aligned it's very hard to just
suddenly have like two things where
there was one before but the bigger
thing is like almost by definition
compound startups are solving like
different problems than Point solution
products
um like if you
um you know if you take the example with
gone I mean I don't know the company
super well and I'm speaking it you know
off the top of my head but you know if
you you start with this thing that
you're solving this problem around call
recording transcription
um you know and and and sort of like
insights about you know for management
about how reps are doing and now you
want to take take on Salesforce you've
you've kind of got to step back and be
like well what we're now solving is this
problem this like business process
problem on like how do you put your
customer facing teams on Rails
um to sort of deliver a consistent
experience to customers and like one
part of that may be like the call
recording experience and it might be
that a company that actually started out
that was like Hey we're gonna do the
compound startup for this sales stack
and do I I don't know something like CRM
but also call recording and Lead routing
and you know calendaring like chili
Piper and calendly and like a whole you
know and did that all all together like
like maybe yeah I can see how that would
be way simpler for a lot of go to market
teams to not have to deal with all this
crap in different systems because for
whatever reason Salesforce has never
gotten around to sort of rolling up
their ecosystem but you kind of have to
start from that I think it's very hard
to like you know pivot from one of those
things into like the full Suite
um let's talk about product launches uh
there were there were a couple questions
earlier in my session about launching
new products from your perspective I
think you've done this how many skus do
you have
it's like probably about two dozen now
okay so so 24 different products that
you've launched you've probably launched
them with varying degrees of success and
uh Fanfare any takeaways in terms of
things that have gone well with
launching a product versus uh lessons on
on the flip side I I mean I generally
think that product launches are
something that we're like not very good
at
um like we're generally like not great
at like PR and like you know ten tend to
sort of like not not be sort of like
really seeking the Limelight from a
press perspective
um
um what what I think has gone well for
us with launches is is focusing on like
what comes after the launch and just
sort of like getting through the launch
because you know the launches you get
this thing where you get you know a lot
of attention for like 48 Hours sometimes
it lasts for like two or three weeks and
then it's kind of crickets and so what
we've done I think reasonably well is
building out everything that happens
after the long launch
and so for us that means building out a
cross-sell motion for a product and the
cross-sell motion is both about having
an account management organization I
mean there are actually a couple
elements to it for us one is an account
management organization that is focused
on selling
um you know new skus to existing
customers they obviously do a lot with
customer success but unlike a lot of
customer success organizations I mean
they're a real sales organization that's
quoted and that is able to make
customers successful and solve their
problems by bringing them like Rippling
Solutions
another piece of it that I I think is
actually really interesting is what we
found is that in a lot of cases this is
about building Standalone sales
organizations so a lot of our products
like our Global team has a standalone
sales organization our finance cloud has
a standalone sales organization some of
our upcoming product launches you know
our our ATS product that's coming soon
is going to have a standalone sales
organization
um and then the third that's really
interesting is we have an internal
effectively like an in-house
um system that is that is effectively
like an ad system that we use internally
um that that basically individual
product teams can place like ads and
promotions inside of our product and we
have a lot of I I hate myself for using
the term AI or machine learning because
your valuations I have it but we have
like some AI something you know there's
like you know sort of assessing like for
this specific customer in this specific
contact at that particular customer at
this moment in time which you know all
of the sort of individual creatives are
competing with each other and the sort
of machine Learning System is making a
decision about sort of what what to
optimize for and what to show the
customer and they're what are they most
likely to convert on and that's what
then drives a lot of like leads across
to the account management team and so
getting those pieces right like the the
sort of internal cross-all advertising
the sales organization for the product
the account management organization
that's what makes it you know like it
doesn't do anything for you in the first
like three weeks but it gives you like a
consistent cross-sell Motion in the
period after launch and that's what we
tend to focus on and one of the
questions that was asked to me uh this
morning was around
um determining when to specialize sales
people on specific product lines versus
allowing the existing team to sell and I
think you do a bit of both I don't think
you have 20 to you said uh two dozen so
I don't think you have 24 dedicated or
specialized sales reps that are selling
each individual SKU so some of those are
sold as part of maybe a bundle or a
sales rep can sell multiple products at
once how do you decide which products
are specialized it versus uh which don't
have dedicated sales people it's her so
I would say that I mean first of all
there's actually this is there's a
tremendous amount of disagreement
internally at rip Lane about how to do
this
um I am like personally on team uh every
product should have its own independent
sales org
um and a lot of other people are on the
other side of the of this question
um I think what you get um the issue
with having one sales team is eventually
you run out of like training capacity
um like the team cannot learn like yet
another product and they get like really
frustrated with being like yanked into
training sessions for each product
launch you know Rippling we launch we
aim to launch five new skus a year so
five new like products every single year
and it's just too much for like one set
of people to like absorb and still be
like effective at all the others and so
it's kind of driven us to sort of need
independent sales organizations and
we're increasingly doing more and more
of that over time
um but the other benefit that you get is
that the individual sales orgs can just
go way deeper on that individual product
like you get some of the advantages of
being a focused Point solution company
when you have you know when each of your
individual product sales organizations
can have a VP of sales and that VP of
sales is going to think about you know
that product and their point solution
competitors all day long and they're
going to figure out like how to beat
them and how to attack the market in the
right way
um versus like you know if you have a VP
of sales that's got you know 25 skus
that they're selling they're going to
pick like the three or four that are the
easiest to sort of help them get to
quota and and inevitably you get
products that are just not going to be
as material an input to your sales
number that year but still like could be
like really successful that just get
ignored if you don't sort of break it up
and have individual people that are
responsible for those things and so I'm
a big fan of of separate sales
organizations for this I think it kind
of bounces back and forth and so like
the knock on this is like I think like
Salesforce internally like struggles a
bit with having sort of you know the
sales experience for customers having
multiple sales teams going after
customers and not having like a coherent
and cohesive experience for customers on
this
and so like a lot of things I don't
think there's one right answer and I
think what happens is like your company
will probably go back and forth you know
every five to seven years or so between
these two extremes of one sales team
versus you know individual sales orgs
per product based on like what you're
bad at as a company at that moment in
time and sort of reorganizing will
probably help you get better at the
other thing and then over time you'll
sort of the one of these muscles will
start to weaken and you'll need to sort
of go back the other direction
makes sense
um the way that I framed it earlier
today when somebody asked the question
was uh a bit of solving for the outcome
if if the goal is to generate the most
revenue for the company try and
construct the team with the the
construct that you believe delivers that
ultimate outcome if it's like you know
usage based on a certain product try and
design the the team that solves for that
outcome and again it's a bit subjective
but if you start from the outcome and
then work your way back from there maybe
a a way to make the decision or
framework uh to use when you were
talking Parker about
um you know it's hard for a sales rep to
understand and learn and go very deep on
20 different products where my mind went
was the same thing is probably true for
the market and so if you are offering 25
different products and Rippling is known
as sort of like all in one HR and IT how
do you handle that from a brand
standpoint like how do you when you're a
point solution it's like very obviously
and finance Mr I went to brexit well
sure let's forget about the last one but
how do you like how how do you establish
a brand so that when people are looking
for one of these 25 products they know
to come to you and not sort of like
muddy the water with all the different
campaigns that you're doing whether it's
payroll uh I.T provisioning um
international pay again 25 of these
things I think it's probably the the
thing that we have found to be the most
challenging about our business is like
the sort of brand question of like what
is Rip Lane and how do we describe it
um uh because there isn't something
there isn't another analogous thing like
this and so
um what happens in practice is customers
come tend to come to us nobody's like
really looking for a Rippling they're
looking for you know a subset of what we
do they're you know maybe there are
companies the audience that are like oh
man yeah I I hate dealing with sage and
you know like process there is super
broken and so we want to talk to
Rippling about that and maybe there's a
separate company that's like I would
never switch payroll but I'm interested
like man it's a lot of work you know
when I have new joiners in my company
that need to you know they need to get
up and running with you know all these
different apps and systems and and
computers and I heard that you guys
solved that problem but not interested
in switching payroll and so what we see
in the U.S is people tend to come to us
with one of those problems and what we
do in sales and by the way customers
very like almost no people almost never
buy just one Rippling product and they
almost never buy all of them up front
and so usually customers are buying like
call it seven skus
um and so there's this opportunity to
sort of cross-sell them things after the
fact which is where that cross-sell
motion comes from but usually our our
job in the sales process is to convince
customers like hey look you think that
you're coming to us with this one
problem which is like setting up new
joiners in slack and email and
Salesforce and GitHub and solving the
administrative pain around that but
actually the problem that you have is
the fragmentation of employee data
across all the Business Systems in your
company and like let me try and convince
you that the problem that you're seeing
here is a symptom of this deeper
underlying disease and I can point to
like 20 other problems that you have in
these other areas you know maybe it's
like in payroll and hris for example
that are stem from the same underlying
condition and if you if you are willing
to solve this problem at a slightly more
fundamental level Rippling can actually
solve all of that for you and so a lot
of times we get customers in who come in
with with a very opinionated view of
what it is that they're shopping for
that end up buying a much larger suite
and sometimes they they St you know they
end up somewhere in between and that's
fine and over time you know there are
opportunities for them as they grow more
confident with the product to add things
down the line
uh you you have built 24 products you
also integrate with what thousands
hundreds maybe
um so you aren't building every single
point solution that exists in the
possible stack of uh products that you
could build what's the decision
framework that you approach build versus
partner with
so the the the real thing that I think
about is there are these five Advanced
there are many disadvantages many hard
things about building a compound startup
but there are these five advantages that
you have
um and generally speaking you want to
build products where those five
advantages are maximized and so you know
the first one was like integration so
you want to build products where the
integration with the other products that
you've already built matters
integration with employee data we look
for products where employee data matters
and that's not necessarily to say that
we build HR products because the thesis
of the company is that actually employee
data matters in a lot of other areas
outside of HR like one of those examples
being things like Finance products like
you know expense management bill pay
corporate cards we're actually an
understanding of who your employees are
and you know who should be on what
policies and who needs to approve for
who else and like that actually matters
tremendously in in those areas
you want to build products where
um the middle we we talk a lot about
middleware at riplane which are the sort
of platform components the elements that
we try and build once and then reuse
across our products things like reports
and workflow automations and permissions
and approvals you want to find products
where the the middleware capabilities
the platform components you've already
invested a lot in matter a lot for those
new those new products so for us it's
like what are the new products where
yeah analytics workflow automations
approvals permissions like those matter
a lot for that new product
you want to build a product where we're
generally speaking you you have a buyer
in common so this advantage of having a
buyer that's already bought in to like I
know how to do stuff in Rippling I don't
want to buy some other thing
um you know that only works if you have
a buyer in common and all else being
equal you want to look for areas where
there are things that you can do with
pricing that allow you to sort of run
circles around competitors from a
pricing perspective and that's sort of
roughly how we prioritize things make
sense
we have about five minutes left I don't
want to monopolize all of the time and
questions for Parker if anybody has a
question please just come up to the mic
and uh go ahead and ask you always have
a fantastic compound business
um but I assume that you obviously have
to start somewhere I.E you probably
start with an on point solution and
broaden into compound
um where do you begin that journal how
do you think about that so I I actually
kind of disagree with that because I
think what happens is the companies that
start with one thing with like this plan
yeah yeah but someday we're going to
build like the next thing they they very
rarely get to the next thing like the
first thing just sucks up more and more
time and energy and effort you go deeper
and deeper and it's never really done
um so we actually started very
purposefully at rip Lane
um with three things so on day one
um we had uh like literally had like two
or three people working on paper
building payroll and hris two or three
people working on device management so
like mobile device management and
computers and the ability to sort of
like order computers from us and have
them ship out and then manage security
on the devices
and the third was what would be called
like identity apps and identity um so
setting people up in in apps and single
sign-on and and that sort of stuff and
so even like before we launched like our
launch set included like all three of
those things
um and we thought it was really
important for the story to be able to
tell customers like you know that we're
not it's not just like payroll and HR
it's this broader sort of thing that
includes all of these different products
that all are in their own ways
reservoirs of information about
employees within your organization
only those three not the next three
sorry that's the last question yeah so
we started with all those three and
obviously stuff started to come later so
we started expanding the product set a
lot later on
um but uh those we started with those
three because they seemed they were the
the deepest reservoirs of employee data
that we could find within the company
like the payroll on HR side for obvious
reasons but actually you know what the
the market that people call identity
right now is actually fundamentally
about employee data as well it's just
employee data in the I.T Department
instead of the HR department and so
that's that's why we sort of built that
as well because we thought look you
shouldn't have separate systems for
employee information because the user
happens to be an I.T user versus an HR
user like you should have one underlying
thing and that's what's actually going
to dramatically simplify this because
like when you hire someone in the HR
System they get provisioned all the I.T
stuff but conversely when you're doing
things in the it room called you have
full observability into all of the HR
data so you know like their department
and their teams and their start date and
you know who their manager is and that
actually ends up being really important
for a lot of I.T systems as well
all right with that we are at time I
apologize we didn't get to the last
question
um thank you so much Parker thank you so
much for everyone that attended Take
Care thank you
[Applause]